God, let's just get into the Word of God because time goes on and I need you to come with me please to 1st John chapter 5, so our Sunday skill is going down.
1st John chapter 5, Hebrews, James 1st 2nd Peter 1st John chapter 5 and you turn to that and I just want to read
In other verse, from John's gospel, chapter 16, on just one verse verse 33, Jesus said, these things I have spoken to you that in me you may have peace.
In the world you shall have tribulation, but, and it's a wonderful, but, but be of good cheer.
I have overcome the world.
In the words you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer for I have overcome the world."
And then 1 John 5, reading from verse 4.
For whatever is born of God, overcomes the world.
And this is the victory that has overcome the world, even our faith.
Who's he who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Jesus is,
the Son of God.
Amen.
No matter where I have ministered in different countries of the world and here, of course, I always find there's one thing that is common to all.
All of us have to deal with it.
It cannot be avoided.
It cannot be evaded.
It cannot be ignored.
We have to consider it.
We've got to contend with it.
And we've got to conquer it because either it defeats us or we defeat it.
But the Bible has a name for it.
It's simply called the world.
Be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.
Now, what does the Bible mean by the world?
Well, it depends on its context.
It can mean different things.
For instance, in John 3, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him would not perish but have everlasting life.
But then here we see in John it means something else.
A different type of world, a world's system, the social order of things around the world, which by and large is against Christ and against the things of God and against the Word of God.
It's the spirit that permeates this world.
God loves humanity.
He's on the die for them, but there's a spirit that permeates the whole world and controls the world.
The Bible calls Satan the God of this world.
And that's what it's talking about.
It's not time for the trees and the seas and the oceans and mountains.
It's talking about the system that governs this world and all of that.
It's mankind and it's fallen state and it's corruption, it's rebellion and it's lawlessness and it's social decay and moral decay.
All of that constitutes the world and it's against the things of God.
It attacks our minds, our thoughts, our words even, how we live, how we deal with other people.
It has an influence, can we say, over everything that we do, and we need to be careful and we need to understand that that world comes against the believer continually.
And we got to understand that and so that we can deal with it.
And so it attacks
about every part of her lives or homes or marriages or children, everything.
Should this surprise us?
No, of course not, because that's the world that we live in.
Should it worry us?
Should it cause us to be fearful?
Should it defeat us?
Should it make us defensive and go on to retreat?
Absolutely not.
For Jesus said, be assured of this, I have overcome the world.
And if we are in Christ,
then we too can and should overcome the world because Christ is in us who has already won that war.
There's battles to be fought.
Of course there are, but the war has already been won and Christ is the victor.
He has overcome the world.
So let me this morning give you just some keys, if you will, to help you to overcome the world.
Let me qualify what I mean by overcoming.
I mean by defeating.
I mean by conquering.
And in many ways it's a process for us.
We have to learn how to do this.
Even though once we're in Christ, potentially we have all of that power and authority to overcome the world.
But it takes time for us to develop and understand that and be able to walk in that authority that Christ has given us.
Take a world championship boxer, for example.
Now he didn't become a word championship boxer the first time he stepped into the ring.
The first time he probably ever boxed was probably when he was a young boy in a club.
Maybe one of the backstreet clubs where lots of boxers ply their trade.
And maybe through that he came up through the ranks and became a namature boxer.
Maybe who knows, maybe even went to the Olympics, won a medal.
But eventually then he becomes a professional boxer.
And
Even as a professional boxer, he didn't win the world championship the first time he had his professional fight.
He had to fight again and again and again.
But eventually, eventually he developed his skills and his abilities and his strengths until he himself overcame another world champion and he himself then in his world, he overcame and became a championship boxer.
I'm saying not to say this,
Whenever we become believers, we're babes in Christ, we have a lot to learn and to understand and to grow into and to grow into knowledge and understanding of who we are in Christ and what we have in Christ.
But eventually God expects us and wants us and wills us to win the battles of life, to overcome this world, not to be overcome by it, but to overcome it.
So how do we do that?
First of all,
realize that you were born again to overcome.
For whatsoever is born of God, overcomes the Word.
That is our birthright.
As soon as we became born again, then all of the potential given to us by God is within us to overcome the world.
He's made provision for it.
He wills it.
He wants it.
And if we're born a God, then we can, and we should, and we will, by God's grace, overcome the world.
Two Corinthians 2, 14 Paul says, thanks be unto God who always causes us to triumph in Christ.
Now sometimes it's a real battle and a struggle.
It's not just something that you click your fingers and it's over.
Sometimes the battle and the struggle's long.
but we keep on and we fight and we understand our position in Christ and we fight until we win, until we overcome whatever's trying to overcome us in the world.
Colossians 2.15, Paul also said, speaking of Christ, having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them triumphing over them in it.
And so the cross for us puts us in a position
to be an overcomer.
Before we ever came to Christ, we were continually being overcome by the Word.
We were taken up by how this Word thinks, how this Word acts, what this Word does.
We were swept along in that broad road.
But once we came to Christ and became born again of God's Spirit, then things began to change.
And we began to see us differently.
We began to see us in Christ and the authority that He has given us and the part that He's given us and the grace that He's given us to be able to overcome
in this word.
So realize that you're born again to be an overcomer.
God expects it.
He wants it.
He desires it.
And then secondly, use the faith that God has given you.
1 John 5, 4, this is the victory that overcomes the world, even our faith.
Just our simple faith in God, our greatest weapon, our greatest asset,
Our simple trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, that is a fantastic thing for us to be in and to know and to have in our lives.
That faith that He has given us, God has dropped into us, faith.
Now, everybody has common faith.
None of you has had to think for any second before you sat in that chair this morning.
You knew that chair would hold you up.
You've done it a thousand, ten thousand times.
Never even thought about it.
But then there's another type of faith that's supernatural faith.
The faith to believe God for something.
The faith to believe God for your whole life.
The faith to believe God to take you into the glory one day.
The faith to give you the strength to go through this life is a born again believer fighting against the world, the flesh and the devil.
That's supernatural faith.
And God has given us that faith.
God has given us the measure of faith.
Whatever you're going through, there's a measure of faith that God has given to you and for you for that thing.
It's the measure of faith.
Whatever you're facing, there's a measure of faith.
Peter calls it the manifold grace of God.
And when he said it, grace of God, and through God's grace, he imparts faith to you, a measure of his faith in order for you to overcome what you are facing.
We are saved through faith, aren't we?
Ephesians 2, at 9, 4, is by grace that you're saved through faith.
Not not of ourselves, it's the gift of God.
Not of work so that none of us can boast.
So you say, God gives us the very gift that we need to overcome.
You know, I've often said that whenever our children are growing up and it comes our birthdays, sometimes when they're very young, they come to us and they may be asked us for some money so they can go out and buy us a present for ourselves.
And it's a bit like God gives us what we need to respond to Him.
But it's a gift that He gives to us.
And it's a wonderful gift, a gift of faith.
Justified by faith Romans 5 and 1, we're made righteous by faith.
We please God by faith.
In fact, without faith, it's impossible to please God, Hebrews 11 and 6.
We receive wisdom by faith.
If we trust God, God will give us the wisdom for whatever we're going through.
And we walk by faith and not by sight.
Whenever the apostle Paul in Ephesians 6, when he's talking about the spiritual battles that oftentimes believers face, and it's a warfare he said.
And he says, we're not fighting against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers against spiritual wickedness and high places.
So it's not people we're fighting against, but it's what's inspiring those people to say come against us as believers.
And he talks about the offensive and defensive weapons that God has given us, the armor of God.
You know it so well.
And one of those things he talks about is the shield of faith, the shield of faith.
Now Paul was, he was observational.
I mean, he saw many, many Roman soldiers.
He saw what the war, and he looked at it very, very carefully, and he spiritualized it.
He got a spiritual lesson out of it.
And he looks at all those pieces of armor, what they wore, what they had in their hands.
And he was able to see a spiritual lesson in that.
And one of the things was the shield of faith, he called it.
It's interesting the word that he uses because Roman soldiers are two shoes.
They had a little round shield, which was a ceremonial shield.
And that would be whenever they'd be on parade saying Rome, maybe it'd be Caesar's birthday or something.
Or maybe they were conquering heroes, come back to march through the streets of Roman, they would be all dolled up in their gear, and they would have this lovely ornate little run shield.
Now that was lovely, it was decorational, it was ornamental.
But that's not what they had in the battlefield.
And Paul uses the word that they use for that shield, and the same great word means door, something that's oblong.
You know, and it's length and it's breadth and it's like a door.
And it was made of a wooden frame.
And it was overlaid with many layers, maybe up to five or six layers, of leather.
Enter woven to make it really, really strong.
And there'd be a metal run all around it to keep the leather tucked in.
And so it was a tremendous defensive weapon.
And so when ours would come, they would put the shield up.
And because of the thickness of the leather and the way it was woven, it didn't get through.
And they used it very, very carefully.
And oftentimes, if ours was coming from above, they'd put it above their head.
Sometimes a grip of them would march forward into battle.
And there'd be two sides of them and back in front, all with their shields up.
And the ones in the middle of it, the shields over their head.
So it'd be like a turtle moving across.
And so it was very, very effective.
The Roman soldier every day had to oil that leather because in hot countries, hot climates, it would dry out and it would crack and become ineffective.
So they would oil it every day to make sure it was, it was fit for battle.
And then if they were coming against the enemy who was firing combustible arrows, fiery darts, they would soak it in water so that when the darts hit it, then it would extinguish those fiery darts.
And Paul talked about that.
the sheet of the faith, wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the evil one that comes against you."
And so this was a wonderful offensive weapon that they had this sheet.
Now, the sheet of the clip, when they weren't using it, they clipped it onto their belt, because every Roman soldier had a belt in it.
He soared and he's built in different things.
And Paul called it the belt of truth.
You know, like God's Word has truth.
And so
The sheet of the faith was attached to the belt of truth.
You know, faith in the word of God goes together.
Doesn't it?
It goes together.
Romans 10, 17, it goes together.
Faith in the word of God is together.
We have faith through the word of God.
And the more we understand the word of God, the more our faith is strengthened by the word of God.
And so he says, taking the sheet of the faith.
Above all, taking the shield of faith.
And two words are used for that are confined into one word, Anna Lambanu.
Anna Lambanu.
It's Anna Lambanu.
It's two words put together.
And Anna just means again to repeat again.
And Lambanu means to take up to lift up.
So you put the two together.
It's to take up again to lift up again the shield of faith.
Because sometimes we let our shield of faith down.
Sometimes we get tired in the battle.
And sometimes it's long in the battle and we let our shield of faith down.
And when we let our shield of faith down, then those fiery darts, they're a lot worse on us because we have let our shield of faith down.
They're not deflecting them anymore.
And so Paul talks about our faith.
The faith that he God has given us is a real key in overcoming this world.
and all the details that we live in.
And then thirdly, get into agreement with what God is saying.
Get into agreement with what God is saying.
When we agree with something, we say what it says and we do what it does.
We say what it says and we do what it does.
Because this word is contrary to the word of God.
It's absolutely contrary to the word of God.
Almost everything we watch in the media
If you listen long enough, you'll spot it.
It's contrary to the word of God, because they don't believe in the word of God.
They don't want the word of God.
They're against the word of God.
While they're knowing layer on whippingly, they are against because that's the spirit of this age that we live in.
That's what the word does.
And Romans chapter, Romans chapter one, the Apostle Paul speaks of this.
In Romans chapter 1, verse 18, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of man, who suppress the truth and unrighteousness, who put down the truth, who suppress it, because what may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it to them.
for since the creation of the world has invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even as eternal power and God had, still that they are with that excuse, because although they knew God, note that because although they knew God, they did not glorify Him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened to professing to be wise, they became fools.
because they knew God, they did not glorify Him as God.
They suppressed that feeling.
When man looks up and he sees the universe around him, and when he looks to the world around him, he cannot believe other than there must be a God.
This just didn't happen.
Even though that's what they say, this just happened.
Even though that's what they preach, this just happened.
Even though that's their mantra,
that had just evolved out of nothing, but in their heart of hearts, they know the truth.
God has revealed it to them, but they suppressed that.
They put that down.
That's what that means.
They suppress the truth in unrighteousness.
I've been reading a book in a recent effect of Reddit twice.
It's very, very, very well written.
very well researched.
The guy who wrote it, he traveled the world talking to top biologists and scientists and so forth.
And so he has really done a tremendous job.
And he's written it in such a way that it's easy to understand.
You're not bomb boozled when you read it.
But it's just amazing the stuff that he tells you about the human body.
And over and over again, throughout the book, he wonders at the marvel of the human body.
the complexity of our circulatory system or blunt system of our skeletal frame of our skin, of our brain, of our lungs, of our levers, everything.
It's amazing.
And he's astounded at how good it is and how wonderful it is.
Let me just give you some of the things he said.
Let me just quote you couple of quotes.
He said, no matter what you pay or how carefully you assemble the materials, you're not going to create a human being.
You can call together all the brainiest people who are alive now or have ever lived and indict them with complete sum of human knowledge, and they could not between them make a simple living cell.
So he acknowledges that it would be impossible.
And then he says, it remains a slightly humbling reflection that about a million times per second our bodies do something that all the signs of the world put together so far cannot do at all.
Every second, a million of your red blood cells die.
And every second, another million takes its place.
And he says all the brains in the world could not do that.
It's impossible.
And now he talks about altogether, it takes seven billion billion billion atoms to make you.
Now, this is where he gets contradictory, doesn't it?
No one can say why those 7 billion, billion, billion atoms have such an urgent desire to be you.
He said, they are mindless particles.
After all, without a single thought or notion between them, yet somehow for the length of your existence, they will build them and tend all the countless systems and structures necessary to keep you humming, to make you, you, to give you form and shape and to let you enjoy the rare and supremely agreeable condition known as life.
Now, throughout this book, even though he acknowledges the wonder, the complexity of the human body, never once ever in the book does he give God credit?
He credits evolution.
He's an evolutionist.
And yet he looks to all of that, has examined all of that, can't understand any of that, but yet he will not acknowledge God.
He suppresses that truth.
You see, he contradicts himself.
He talks about ourselves.
These are mindless particles, after all, without a single thought or notion between them.
But then how do they perform?
How do they make us us?
How do they maintain us?
Why do they get that knowledge and understanding to do that?
What motivates them, what drives them to do that?
There's no answer to that.
No, no, no, no answer to that.
It's only God.
But rather than acknowledge God,
They'll acknowledge, they'll tip their hat to evolution.
Once they don't understand, really.
It's just guesswork, really.
But that's what Paul says when they suppress the truth.
That's the world that we live in.
That's what we have to deal with.
If you say you're a creation of you, you'll be laughed at a court.
There's people whose top sign is at lost their jobs because they believe that.
They've been kicked out.
But that's the foolishness of this world.
That's how this world thinks.
That's how it operates.
That's what we're up against.
So that's why we have got to get into agreement with what God is saying.
This is our textbook.
This is the thing that we look to.
This is what gives us our worldview.
Not what's out there, but what's in here.
And what's in here will contradict much of what's out there.
So we need to know what's in here.
In Galatians 5, 16 to 26, which we're not going to read, it talks about the fruit of the Spirit and the works of the flesh.
If you ever want to know the difference between the world and the kingdom of God, look no further in Galatians 5 and see the difference between the works of the flesh and the fruit of the Spirit.
It's in bold relief, you cannot miss it.
That's the difference between us and the world.
1 John 2, 14, John says, I write unto you, young man,
because you're strong on the word of God abides in you.
How will the word of God ever abide in us unless we imbibe it, unless we feast on it and live on it and eat it, so that abides in us?
In Joshua, one on eight, this book of the law shall not depart from your mouth,
but you shall meditate in it, Dan Knight, that you may observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success."
I love Psalmist David.
I love his love for the Word of God.
You know, when you read Psalm 119, it's the longest Psalm, and every verse is about the Word of God.
It's statues, it's commandments, it's laws, it's ordinances, and he loves them.
And he says, it's like honey to my mouth when I eat it.
He just loves it.
He meditates on a day on night, he says.
Let me ask you a question.
Is this Bible of yours?
Is it open for one week to the next?
Because it ought to be.
Are you abiding in the Word?
Do you read the Word?
Do you meditate on the Word?
Do you come to hear the Word preached?
Because it's so, so important.
to overcome this world that you'd be filled up with God's word.
Sally and I were driving somewhere yesterday and the subject came up because she's reading through the Bible this year again.
She's done it several times.
And we're just talking about that.
And I quote at Spurgeon.
He says, some people's Bibles, there's so much dust on them.
He says, they could write domination across it with their finger.
And even though that's funny, but it's serious.
You know, I used to joke that there's a little shelf at the back there in that table, and there's Bibles there that people's left behind.
Sometimes they're lying there for weeks.
They don't even know they're left behind, because I haven't even lifted it for weeks.
It's only when something's going to go like, oh, where's my Bible?
Oh, I can't find it.
Oh, it's been in church for the past six weeks.
That's why he can't find it.
So we need to get the Word of God into us.
In Matthew 4, it says, then Jesus, verse one, then Jesus was led up by the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.
And when he had fasted 40 days and 40 nights, after which he was hungry, now when the tempter came to him, he said, if you are the son of God, command that these stones become bread.
But he answered and said, it is written.
Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God.
And he quotes Deuteronomy chapter 8 verse 3.
Now he didn't have a Bible in his hand.
The word of God was in his heart and it was in his mind.
And he knew that he said, well, he was the word of God, be it flesh, but in this humanity, when he was growing up, he had to learn the word of God.
Like any other young Jewish boy from his mother's knee, probably named the synagogue until he was saturated in the word of God, until it fell down.
And then when the temptation came, when the trial came, when problem came, the first thing that comes up out of his mouth is the word of God.
He didn't have to go and search for it.
It was there right there.
He knew the exact
word he needed to overcome the evil one.
Then the devil took him up into the holy city, set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, if you are the son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written.
Now the devil can quote the word of God too.
But when he quotes it, he takes it out of this context and he does it to try to trick us and fill us.
And there's many a cult today that started out orthodox
But they came filled by the devil and read scriptures wrong and was missed land because they took the wrong meaning and they didn't get it right.
And they went off track and became a cult.
So the devil takes him up to, and he goes, if you're the son of God, through yourself, down for it is written, he shall give his angels charge over you, Psalm 91 and 11.
And again in their hands, they shall bury you up lest you die your foot against the stone, 91 verse 12.
Jesus said unto him, it is written again.
You shall not tempt, you shall not put to the test the Lord your God.
And he coached jitter on him in 616.
He just, it was just right there.
He just taught it, right?
Just on the tip of his tongue, the exact word he needed.
Again, the devil took him up to an exceedingly high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
And he said to him, all these things I will give you if you fall down on worship me.
And Jesus said to him, away with you, Satan, for as written, you shall worship the larger God and him only shall you serve.
Jitteronomy 6, 13.
Now the beauty of that is,
The very thing that Jesus used to defeat the enemy is the very thing that's available to us today.
Over 2,000 years, nothing has changed.
The weapon that Jesus used against the enemy was the Word of God and that's the chief weapon for us today.
After 2,000 years, that hasn't changed.
And the more we know the Word of God and understand the Word of God and remember the Word of God, then in difficult seasons and times, whenever we're being tested and tried, whenever we're up against it in the world, the flash and the devil's coming against us, then the Word of God can come up in her hearts and open her minds.
I wish we were as good at Jesus as it had.
I wish every time we got that phone call or that letter or that whatever,
I wish the word of God just would immediately just jump over to our hearts.
But the truth is, usually, Ponic's the first thing that comes, isn't it?
If you're truthful, it's usually Ponic.
If it's bad news, it's Ponic's the first thing, and then we settle down.
And then we're to think.
Well, let me see.
What does God say about this?
What does His word say about this?
And if you have been reading and meditating and thinking about it and mulling over it, and then
The word of God will begin to come into your heart and into your mind.
Hebrews 1 3, he upholds all things by the word of his power.
That means the part of his word.
Definitely means that, but it doesn't say that says the word of his power, letting us know that his word, his power is expressed through his word.
When he gave his word, something happened.
And God said, let there be, and God said, let there be, and God said, let there be.
And something happened.
His power was expressed through His Word.
And even Jesus, and then you test Him on how many times did He just speak the Word.
The Roman soldier said to Jesus when Jesus was going to come and hit His servant, He says, you don't need to come.
You need to come.
Just speak the Word only.
I know all you've got to do is speak the word only in my servant shall be healed.
When Jesus was amazed, he'd find such faith in Israel from a Roman soldier.
Get into agreement with what God is saying, not what the world is saying, but what God is saying.
Now look to the greater one inside you.
1 John 4-4, you are of God little children and have overcome them because greater is he who is in you
than he who is in the world.
Who's the damn that he's talking about here?
You've overcome them as greater as he does, and you than he's in the world.
The church, you know, right from its inception.
I mean, it wasn't, it wasn't very old.
It was very, very young, the church, whenever it was being infiltrated by false teachers and false teachings.
because Satan knows that that will destroy and rack the church.
He knows that.
And so that's what he does.
And all done through the 2000 years since the inception of the church, you can see that.
You can see how false teaching has come in again and again and again.
And it's here with us even this very day.
It's with us today.
There's lots of stuff out there that you would not hardly believe has come into the church.
You kind of believe that people believe it, but they do believe it.
And it does grip damage and it hurts the kingdom.
But that's what Satan wants to do.
He wants to sow the tears among the wheat.
The them was the false teachers, suggesting spirits, the spirit of error and isms and schisms and anything and everything that would come against the Christ or stand in Christ.
It would come against the things of God.
That's the them.
Anything that reduces Christ
Lordship and His death and His power and His glory.
That's the them that John was speaking about.
And the them is still with us to this day.
So we've got to be alert.
We've got to be on guard.
You know, Jesus said that in the last days, and I believe that we're in the last days, not it.
He said, deception will appear so real that even the very church, if it's not careful,
Even the elect could be deceived.
That's how close deception will be in the last days.
In Matthew 24, 24 and 25, he says, for false Christ and false prophets will rise and show great signs and wonders to deceive.
If possible, even the elect, see, I have told you beforehand.
Would you see
Would you not think, well, if it was a sign and a wonder, well, surely that would be God.
That couldn't be anybody else on the God.
But no, he says, no, no.
He says, given to deceive.
You know, whenever Moses threw down his rod in front of those Egyptian magicians, his rod turned into a snake.
They threw theirs down, and they turned on the snakes.
You see, some people think, well, the devil has no power.
He does.
Of course He does.
And His great powers of deception as well, deceives the whole world the Bible says.
Well, that's not be silly and daft and thinking that we know Christ's powers greater.
We know He's a greater one.
We know He's overcome the word, but that doesn't mean that the enemy doesn't have any power.
And in the last days, Jesus said, there's going to come signs and wonders that will, if possible, even deceive the very likes, so we've got to be very careful.
And you know, we're people that wants to see the power of God.
We would long to see the power of God.
We would long to see mighty signs and wonders and miracles.
Wonderful.
But he says, be careful.
Be careful what it would lead to.
You see, if a sign and a wonder lead you away from Christ, then itself the devil is not of God, isn't it?
And that's what happened to some of these false Christs over the centuries that arose.
And so we need to look to the greater one who is inside us.
That's what we need to look to, to make sure that we're looking to the right one.
And Ephesians 4, in the verse 11, it says, and he gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the sense for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the building up of the body of Christ, till we all come to the unity of the faith
and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect man to a mature man, to the measure of the stature of the filness of Christ that we should no longer be children tossed to and fro cried about with every wind of doctrine by the trickery of man and cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting.
You've no longer children tossed to and fro by every wind
doctrine.
Now, there's some people in certain segments of the church today that say that doctrine, oh, we don't want doctrine.
You know, it divides people and it's controversial.
And you know, we should get hung up in doctrine.
Well, evidently Paul didn't think that.
In fact, Paul wanted Timothy and the young pastor to preach doctrine, good doctrine.
He says, because the day is coming,
when people want to sign doctrine, having ancient years.
Want to heap onto themselves teachers having ancient years.
Just want to hear what they want to hear.
But Paul said to teach sign doctrine, that's why over these years I have tried my best over the years to teach you about sanctification, redemption, and all the cardinal doctrines of the Bible, adoption, everything to do with the cardinal doctrine.
Why?
To keep you straight.
to make you understand what you believe.
Believers need to believe and understand what they believe, so they're not deceived.
Because Maniah, a Christian who didn't know the word of God, he didn't know the sound doctrine, has been deceived and been cut off.
And all kinds of foolishness and nonsense.
And then as we begin to close here, consider the name of Jesus.
Philippians 2 9 to 11.
Therefore, God is highly exalted him and given him a name which is above all other names.
That at the name of Jesus, every name should buy those in heaven, those on earth and those under the earth.
And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God, the Father.
And Peter writes 1 Peter 3 22, talking about Jesus, he has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers having been made subject to him.
Now the name of Jesus is not a talus man, it's not an abracadabra, but it's powerful.
It's a powerful, powerful name.
And Satan hates the name of Jesus.
He hates it.
Why do you think the name of Jesus is the most blasphemed name on the whole earth?
Why do you think that?
Because Satan hates it and he wants it blasphemed.
Do you remember the son Hadron said to Peter and the early disciples?
Not to preach in that name.
Oh, that name.
And boy, that was the very thing.
They preached in that name.
This Jesus whom you crucified, boy, they preached that name.
And Apostle Paul everywhere, he went, the other had a riot, or he had a revival, because he preached that name.
You say, well, that name, it's okay here.
Well, there's some countries today.
If you and I speak in that name, you maybe get your hand taken from your shoulders.
You may be getting present because you believed in that name.
It happened 2,000 years ago and 2,000 years later, it's still happening because Satan hates the name of Jesus, because it's a powerful name.
And it's a name that's been given to us.
We go forth in that name.
We pray in that name, amen?
We go forth and we believe and trust in that name.
That's a powerful thing.
The mighty name of Jesus in every single tongue.
and couldn't a devil himself well confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
All those blasphemers one day on their knees will confess that he is the Lord, that name that they despise.
There's someone whittingly do it.
Don't even think about it.
Don't think about it as Muhammad, but thinking about it then, all right.
But when it's Jesus, don't even think about it.
It's just a just a curse word.
Just a throwaway line, but one day, he'll confess that he is the Lord, the Lord of God.
Oh, I had more, but our time is gone.
Our time is gone.
Time goes so quickly, doesn't it?
Come be pray.
Lord God, we thank you that you have not left us defenseless,
You have given us every weapon in our armory that we need to defeat this world.
This world that we live in that so deceived, that so against Christ in so many ways, that we have to live in every day, that we're bombarded with stuff that, Lord, you have given us all that we need to overcome the world and to live a strong, true believers in Christ that will stand up
and stand for faith and trust in Jesus.
So we give you thanks.
So Lord, give us the courage and the grace every day to go forth in your name and to trust in you and to be strong in the Lord and the power of his might.
And we'll be careful to give you the honor and the glory in Christ's name.
Amen.